\--Introduction
The commands you saw in the previous chapter allowed you to move things around in the filesystem. This chapter will show you how to work with the data in those files. The tools we’ll use are fairly simple, but are solid building blocks.

\--Questions
How can I view a file's contents?
A: concatenate
How can I view a file's contents piece by piece?
A: less
How can I look at the start of a file?
A: head
How can I type less?
A: tab completion
	If you start typing the name of a file and then press the tab key, the shell will do its best to auto-complete the path.
	If the path is ambiguous, such as seasonal/s, pressing tab a second time will display a list of possibilities. Typing another character or two to make your path more specific and then pressing tab will fill in the rest of the name.
How can I control what commands do?
A: flags
	Change command's behavior giving it a flag
	A flag's name usually indicates its purpose
	*it's considered good style to put all flags before any filenames,
How can I list everything below a directory?
a: listing -recursive
How can I get help for a command?
A: manual
How can I select columns from a file?
A: cut
How can I repeat commands?
A:  up-arrow key
    history will print a list of commands you have run recently
	Each one is preceded by a serial number to make it easy to re-run particular commands: just type !55 to re-run the 55th command
    !head or !cut will re-run the most recent use of that command

\--Commands
cat
	Its name is short for "concatenate", meaning "to link things together"
	prints the contents of files onto the screen
less
	to page the output
	one page is displayed at a time
	you can press spacebar to page down or type q to quit
	If you give less the names of several files
		:n (colon and a lower-case 'n') to move to the next file
		:p to go back to the previous one
		:q to quit.	
head
	prints the first 10 lines of a file
man
	manual
	brings up information about the command
	SYNOPSIS lists all the flags it understands
	Anything that is optional is shown in square brackets [...]
	Either/or alternatives are separated by |
	things that can be repeated are shown by ...
		
tail
	output the last part of files
	-q 
cut
	remove sections from each line of files
	Print selected parts of lines from each FILE to standard output
grep
	selects lines according to what they contain
	takes a piece of text followed by one or more filenames and prints all of the lines in those files that contain that text.
	-c: print a count of matching lines rather than the lines themselves
	-h: do not print the names of files when searching multiple files
	-i: ignore case (e.g., treat "Regression" and "regression" as matches)
	-l: print the names of files that contain matches, not the matches
	-n: print line numbers for matching lines
	-v: invert the match, i.e., only show lines that don't match
paste
	 combine data files instead of cutting them up

\--Flags
	-d
		delimiter (specify the separator)
	-n
		number of lines
 	-R
		Recursive
		shows every file and directory in the current level, then everything in each sub-directory, and so on.
	-F
		prints a / after the name of every directory and a * after the name of every runnable program.
	-f
		fields
		

things that can be repeated are shown by ...