Where am I?
A: print working directory
How can I identify files and directories?
A: listing
How else can I identify files and directories?
A: relative path. The shell decides if a path is absolute or relative by looking at its first character: If it begins with /, it is absolute. If it does not begin with /, it is relative. Example: Absolute /home/repl/seasonal, the relative path from /home/repl is seasonal.
How to move around filesystems? How can I move to another directory?
A: change directory
How can I copy files?
A: copy
How can I move a file?
A: move
How can I rename files?
A: move
How can I delete files?
A: remove
How can I create and delete directories?
A: move/makeDirectory and remove directory


\--Commands:
pwd
	print working directory
	prints the absolute path
	tells you where you are
ls
	listing
	To find out what's there
	lists the contents of your current directory
	if you add the names of directories, it will list their contents
		For example, ls /home/repl
cd
	change directory
	move around in the filesystem
cp
	cp existingFileName copiedFileName directory
		cp original.txt duplicate.txt
		creates a copy of original.txt called duplicate.txt
mv
	moves a file from one directory to another
	To move multiple files using the mv command pass the names of the files or a pattern followed by the destination
	*just like cp, mv will overwrite existing files.
	Also used to rename files, e.g.: mv course.txt old-course.txt
	Treats directories the same way it treats files
rm
	remove
	you can give rm the names of as many files as you'd like
	*the shell doesn't have a trash can
	
rmdir (alternative: rm -r directory)
	remove directory
	It only works when the directory is empty
mkdir
	Make directory
	create a new (empty) directory


\--Directories:
	/ root directory
	/home/repl is the directory repl in the directory home
	.. (two dots with no spaces) means "the directory above the one I'm currently in"
	A single dot on its own, ., always means "the current directory"
	~ (the tilde character), means "your home directory", such as /home/repl